# Simulation of a population of adults with Gompertz distribution

In many instances, it is useful to calculate with a population with
known parameters. To generate a population with realistic
characteristics is less obvious than it seems. We operate here with the
Gompertz distribution which provides a reasonable approximation of human
mortality for **adult** mortality, that is for the ages \>= 15 years.
The user has to specify either the parameter b or the modal age M. The
modal age M is particular useful as it provides an intuitive
understanding of the resulting age distribution. In both instances, the
second parameter a is generated by the regression formula found by
*Sasaki and Kondo 2016*. If neither is given, a population with random
parameters realistic for pre-modern times is generated.

## Usage

``` r
pop.sim.gomp(n, b = NULL, M = NULL, start_age = 15, max_age = 100)
```

## Arguments

- n:

  number of individuals to be simulated.

- b:

  numeric, optional. Gompertz parameter controlling the level of
  mortality.

- M:

  numeric, optional. Modal age M.

- start_age:

  numeric. Start age, default: 15 years.

- max_age:

  numeric. Maximal age, to avoid unlikely centenaries, default: 100
  years.

## Value

A list of two data.frames with the following items:

First data.frame

- **N**: Number of individuals.

- **b**: Gompertz parameter controlling mortality.

- **M**: Modal age.

- **a**: Gompertz parameter controlling hazard of the youngest age
  group.

Second data.frame

- **ind**: ID of individuals.

- **age**: Simulated absolute age.

## References

Sasaki T, Kondo O (2016). “An informative prior probability distribution
of the gompertz parameters for bayesian approaches in paleodemography.”
*American Journal of Physical Anthropology*, **159**(3), 523–533.
[doi:10.1002/ajpa.22891](https://doi.org/10.1002/ajpa.22891) .

## Examples

``` r
pop_sim <- pop.sim.gomp(n = 10000, M = 35)
pop_sim <- pop.sim.gomp(n = 10000, b = 0.03)
pop_sim <- pop.sim.gomp(n = 10000)
```
